---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-11
published: true
labels:
  - Essay 1
---

*UI Basics Technical Essay*

Starting with the frist WOD, "Browser History 1" I was not necessarily sure on what to expect. Jumping in and starting the timer however, I quickly understood that I would need to take my time to understand the steps necessary to complete it. I did fail the first time, not finishing within the time. 
I even ran into multiple instances where I expected something to work, but when refreshing the page, it was simply not there. Following this first attempt, and finally making it through, I went to watch the screencast of the WOD to see the most efficient way of completing the tasks. I do think this helped immensely,
as I was then able to finish the WOD in one go following. While this may not work for everyone, or maybe my memory was extra sharp when doing them, I think it helped me to see the process first and then attempt it after. Following this I finished the WOD within the RX time.

For the second and third WODs I once again looked through the steps and attempted them without recording first to get a grasp of what to do. I then watched the screen casts to see the best ways to do what I had already attempted to do. Then came the recording. I only made mistakes once or twice, and would stop the
recording and reset as I was attempting to finish the WOD within the shortest amount of time possible. Many times these mistakes were simple ones such as missing a tag line, or spacing issue, and nothing too major. I even left one such mistake in one of my screencasts as I was well enough under time to do so.

Overall, the WODs were not too difficult, but instead were a helpful way of practicing the learned material in a hands on manner!

