---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4: Progress in Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-11-21
published: true
labels:
  - Essay 4
---

*Progress in Programming*

My programming skills have greatly improved in the following ways:

First of all, I would say my troubleshooting skills have greatly improved. I was able to not only find and fix issues myself, but also ask for assistance
when needed. I also can say that I am much more fluent in reading the different languages and full understanding what each thing does and the logic behind
all of it, as before I only somewhat understood it.

I need to work on the following to improve my programming skills:

I definitely still need to work on organizing my work and making sure that I have no wasted code. I also feel there is always ample opportunity to improve
how well you can understand, read and write code fluently. 

I have learned a lot from doing WODs and I can do them without copying the screencast:

I have learned a lot, especially in the troubleshooting department and using my resources from the WODs. While I will say having the screencast available
for help is definitely beneficial, I did find myself using them as a crutch during certain moments. I do wish however that they would still be accessible
more easily as I did spend a great amount of time on some simple mistakes on previous WODs.

The labs have help me learn and I am able to complete them with confidence:

Especially the last few labs that applied directly to assignment 1, it was beneficial. Seeing how the practice we do in labs translates directly to a real (or
somewhat real) application makes it not only more digestable, but rewarding as well.

I learned a lot from my experience doing Assignment 1 and feel ready to work on Assignment 2:

I definitely learned an immense amount from Assignment 1 and am very confident I will be just fine on Assignment 2.

I think the class can be improved to help my learning in the following ways:

I think spending more in-class time working directly on the Assignment 1, and having less focus on the labs can help. In other words, I do wish the Labs
such as lab 12 correlate directly to Assignment 1, rather than us simply adapting it to fit.

What helps me the most in class are (WODs, Labs, class website, screencasts, readings, quizzes, one on one help, working with classmates, etc.):

I definitely find that Labs and one on one help are the most beneficial. But I have also found it nice to collaborate with classmates as they may have
better ideas on how to do something than I did.

