---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Assignment 3 Retroactive Blog"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-11-21
published: true
labels:
  - Essay 5
---
*Retroactive Blog*
**Briefly describe your system (e.g. A store selling Pokemon game cards)**
My website is an online grocery store that offers a selection of fruits, veggies and dairy products to it's customers.

**Any notable shortcomings, bugs, problems, or additional features not implemented?**
The only notable bug that occurs sometimes is when the server starts up, you may have to refresh one of the product pages once for things to load. I tried to work on fixing this but to no success.
I also failed to implement a remove products feature as I ran out of time.

**Describe what you are most proud of about your system:**
I honestly am most proud of the UI design and the fact that it looks fairly professional for my first attempt at coding like this.

**Describe what you are least happy with your system:**
I am least happy with some of the features that I was not able to implement such as extra IRs or an account editing page.

**How was developing this assignment different than assignment #2?**
Developing Assignment 3 took quite a bit more time and research into understanding how sessions work and how to make use of them in different situations. It definitely also showed me that sessions are incredibly important. Along with this I realize how certain decisions can greatly impact future code you have to write as well.

**When you ran into a problem, what did you do to address it?**
I would first try my best to resolve the issue myself, or use ChatGPT to see if it could notice an issue. Past this I would look for help from Dan to see if he could help me figure it out.

**Describe what worked well in doing this assignment?**
I think my UI design, Cart and Invoice worked very well in this assignment. I was also easily able to expand the selection of products offered fairly easily.

**Describe what did not work well in doing this assignment?**
The issue I spent the most time on was both the IR7 and nodemailer not sending a proper invoice. both were eventually resolved but it took a very long time for these to be solved.

**What did you learn from doing this assignment?**
I learned the importance of asking for help, as well as the importance of using simpler methods of coding to avoid doing more work in the future. I also further learned the importance of the debugging tool in its use to find and fix issues.

**If you could go back in time and do things differently, what would you change?**
I would for sure change the way I produce product pages and use pkeys instead. this would have made solving some issues much faster.

**Estimate the % of time you spent (a) thinking about how to do something, (b) writing code (but do not include testing, (c) testing and debugging**
Id say its about 20% thinking about it, 20% writing it and 60% debugging.

